Thank you all.
Yes.
And you have that ability
to use the power of images
to propel you into the
movement, the direction
that you wish to go.
So I'd like us to think also
about where we want to go
and what is emerging.
And it makes me think of media.
And we've talked today
a couple of times
about social media,
the internet.
And just thinking about TV and
all those different sources
of what we see, is that can
you imagine if just a fraction
of that would be
spent on the issues
that we've been talking about,
about creating this new dream
that is environmentally
sustainable, spiritually
fulfilling and socially just.
And so if we can imagine that
happening-- and the reality,
it is already emerging,
it is already happening.
And so I'd like to show you
this short video to get a sense
of how that is occurring.
Yo, listen up.
This is your home.
It's the only one you got.
This place is pretty,
but you can't live there.
You can't even get there.
So I repeat, this is your home.
It's the only one you got.
Cherish it, protect it.
It's the only one
you're going to get.
These guys, they're
your neighbors.
They ain't going away.
They ain't leaving.
You have to get along with them.
So you have to learn to share.
You have to get along.
You have to learn to get along.
Because they are your neighbors,
they're not going away.
OK.
All this stuff, the animals,
the waters, the sky, the ground,
the bugs, the fish,
the tacos, the people,
they're all connected.
Everything is connected.
They all depend on one another.
If you ignore that,
you're doomed.
Repeat, doomed.
OK.
So listen up.
It's all one.
Not two worlds, not three.
One, just one.
So get it in gear.
Remember, all is one.
OK?
Hit it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So here we are.
We're in the fourth question.
The fourth question is,
where do we go from here?
And let's use this
as an opportunity
to explore what each of us
can do, maybe what we can do
individually and what
we can do together
in this great work of
changing the direction
of the human family.
We're going to start
by looking at what
it means to take a stand.
And we've got a
video that will give
some wonderful illustrations
of the power of a stand.
It's 3:23 in the morning.
And I'm awake.
Because my great,
great grandchildren
won't let me sleep.
My great, great
grandchildren ask me
in dreams, what did you do
while the planet was plundered?
What did you do when the
earth was unraveling?
Surely you did something
when the seasons
started failing, as the mammals,
reptiles, birds were all dying.
Did you fill the
streets with protest
when democracy was stolen?
What did you do once you knew?
So now we know.
We know that our current world
view and the industrial system
it gave rise to have run
up against the limits
of a finite planet.
We know that the
vitality of the earth
is declining every day, that the
chasm between the few of us who
have more than we need and the
many of us who have not nearly
enough gets wider every day.
And we know that it is
hurting all of us inside.
At the same time,
we knew that we
are part of a
worldwide awakening,
a grassroots movement
for change that is
unprecedented in human history.
So now that we know,
the question arises,
what part do we play in
this great unfolding story?
Where do we go from here?
Where do you go from here?
[SINGING]
People want to know what to do.
And I think that's a
good question, too.
But a more profound question
and a more powerful question
is, who do we need to be?
And I think who we need
to be are people who
know that the decisions
and choices we make now
impact the future of life
for the next 100 years.
Everybody alive today
has a role to play.
You don't have a big role and
you don't have a small role,
you just have your role.
And if you play
it, then your life
will really have a kind of
meaning that you've dreamt of.
This is the true joy in life.
The being used for
a purpose recognized
by yourself as a mighty one.
[SPEAKING IN FRENCH]
Complaining that the
world will not devote
itself to making you happy.
[SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
And for as long as I
live, it is my privilege
to do for it whatever I can.
I want to be thoroughly
used up when I die.
For the harder I work--
The more I live.
[SPEAKING IN FRENCH]
Life is no brief candle to me.
[SPEAKING IN SPANISH]
[SPEAKING IN FRENCH]
Before handing it on
to future generations.
George Bernard Shaw.
I don't think an authentic
stand comes from your head.
I think an authentic stand
comes from your heart.
If your child is sick,
something happens in you to make
a miracle, to make a miracle.
And if you start thinking
about it, you'll sit down.
But if you feel it,
you'll stand up.
That's the amazing
thing about this thing
is that it's, when you
stand up, you license
other people to stand up.
Now you standing up
by yourself don't
make a dadgum bit of difference
in the rational world.
You just one fool standing up.
But have you ever seen
a standing ovation?
It starts with one
fool standing up.
And then pretty soon, the
whole stadium is standing up.
And it's a different moment.
[CROWD CHEERING]
You know, I've got a hunch.
One of the things that
unites all of us in this room
is the desire to have
our lives have meaning.
And there's a way
of orienting to that
that I'm going to share now.
And it's to take a stand.
To take a stand for something,
to say that I'm for something.
A stand is to be for something.
It's not to be against something
else and it's not to be right.
It's just to have your life make
sense in support of something
that you affirm.
It's a way of moving from soul
from heart, not from the head,
towards something that
we firmly believe in.
And now here we are,
we're gathered together
by the purpose of
this symposium,
bringing forth an
environmentally
sustainable, spiritually
fulfilling, socially just human
presence.
And I want to offer all
of us the opportunity
now to take a stand in our lives
that affirm that, that purpose.
And so Anita's going
to come and join
us and lead us just through the
opportunity to declare a stand.
Thanks.
Do you mind passing those out?
So what John is passing
out is a declaration card.
And I filled out one of
these four years ago.
And on the front is the
purpose of the symposium,
the commitment of bringing
forth an environmentally
sustainable, spiritually
fulfilling and socially
just human presence.
And on the back is the George
Bernard Shaw quote that you
just heard on the video.
You know, we all
have the opportunity
to say what our life is about,
what we stand for, who we are.
And I've found that the
power of taking a stand
is larger, greater, more
potent than I ever thought.
When we take a stand,
we move from having
a point of view about the world
to actually having vision.
And from vision, your
life can really matter.
You can really
make a difference.
I invite you to take out
your declaration card
and to sign it, affirming
your own commitment
to an environmentally
sustainable,
spiritually fulfilling,
socially just
human presence on this planet.
Whether you sign this
declaration or not
is up to you.
But if you do sign
the card, I suggest
you put it up somewhere
at home or at your office
where you'll see it.
It will remind you of
your personal commitment
to be an agent of change in
the world, a global citizen who
is working to shift the course
of history, turn the tide
and transform our future
into the one we want.
Once you take this stand, your
life will never be the same.
I know, because I did it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]